Okay, we're on again.
Page 307, is it?
Page 307, where you describe so powerfully that first hiding mound, you know, at the airport.
And there's a wonderful line there where you say, you knew you must flee or walk into a doom beyond all knowing.
And there's this sense here that you had a sense of certainly the unknown, but doom.
And I wonder, here we have the one time radical intellectual on the one hand, the sex perceived sex goddess on the other.
Did you ever kind of perceive or see yourself
That's two characters in a play.
I mean, are we talking about characters?
No.
We're reaching a little too far, right?
Well, that may seem to you, but... I mean, I'm reaching too far.
Oh, yeah.
We're just really talking about relationships.
No human being feels he's a character in a play.
No human being I ever heard of.
He's just living his life.
I'm not going to pick up too much fun.
Well, good, because I have to.
One other question.
Death is so central in your work.
Do you consider yourself a writer of tragedy, per se?
Well, I would like to.
It's a condition that applies to all of us.
However, I found in recent years that it takes less and less of the center.
It moves off from the center away from the center of my work.
And I suspect it's because I get closer to it with each decade.
I don't know.
I think that in the future, something I'm working on now would probably complete the circle back to a tragic moment again.
But it's hard to rationalize these things.
I work by instinct a lot.
I'm not a philosopher.
I follow my nose, as this book indicates.
I mean you can see from the book that it's not a, I haven't laid out a plot.
It's instinctive.
But there is a plot.
There is, but it discovers itself, so to speak.
It's not preordained.
And your plays apparently did that as well.
That's right.
And yet there is a beginning, a middle, and an end.
Well, if there isn't I don't complete them.
I also start writing plays that don't end, but I don't publish them.
And do they go on the desk to gather desks?
Yeah.
They stay in the notebook.
A play without an end is not a play yet.
It's something that's not quite born.
My point is you don't go back to it though?
Not usually, no.
I can't redo something.
I have to do it fresh.
I get the excitement of a fresh discovery.
You have to be moved.
Exactly.
If I'm not moved, I can't make anybody else see anything or feel anything.
It's my excitement that I have to convey.
You don't see this as entertainment either, I think.
Well, it's a different form of entertainment.
It's not entertainment as an evasion of existence, but an entertainment of finding existence and finding some new light on it.
That's entertainment.
But art has to have a purpose beyond entertainment.
Well, yeah, but there you get on slippery ground.
I don't want people to think that I am
a moralist in the sense that I think everything has to improve human race.
But it's nice to have a catharsis every once in a while.
Well, that's the issue.
That's the issue, really.
Whether you can draw seemingly unrelated elements together into a new relationship that explodes on the stage with some illumination.
That's the idea.
The illumination is the idea, is the hope.
Are you as politically involved, in your mind at least?
Yeah, I think politics is in the web of life.
Without politics we have only violence.
We better have politics.
A country without politics is a country.
rule by a dictator.
And so, because I value my freedom, I have to pay attention to politics.
As a Greek, I have to ask you a question, and maybe that's it.
But is this an irreparable...?
I don't know.
I've seen him in recent years, sometimes.
In my book, I'm simply describing what happened.
I don't hold any animus against him.
I haven't for many long times.
But it was a historical event.
There was no way.
And decisions were made to go one way or the other.
That's right.
But I have often said that everybody got so personal about the whole thing that it was about what the issues were.
The issue was that no artist, nobody, not just artist, should be snatched off the street and dragged into a government office to be pilloried like that.
And on a fishing expedition?
Absolutely.
Just throwing the hook in the water and seeing what bites.
What earthly?
You know, your point is, are we dealing with some legislation?
Are we trying to formulate a bill?
Well, finally, that became the law, you see.
My position finally became the law.
And it's a pity that it hadn't become the law before.
It would have saved a lot of unnecessary summary.
That was quite a case that you reminded me of in here, by the way, with Aladdin, Connecticut.
who was browbeaten into that confession.
There was a TV thing on that some time.
They never solved that crime, did they?
We just had a dreadful crime up in the North County of a woman and her tooth.
I was just listening to the news on it this morning.
A 33-year-old woman, a 7-year-old son, a 7-year-old daughter, a 5-year-old son, brutally murdered.
All of them?
The father came home from, he's a lawyer, discovered them by 20, Tuesday after day.
They've got a warrant out there looking for a 17-year-old kid who left a trail a mile wide.
But anyway, I'm sorry.
You shot him?
If you've got the Globe, it's in this morning.
Oh yeah.
It's the front page.
I forget the Globe.
Yeah, this is the Globe.
Well, the front page story at the bottom anyway.
It's a dreadful story.
But anyway, that was a very interesting case, which is not, you know, to try and get, that was non-political as far as you were concerned.
It was a human rights thing.
The kid gets rude, basically.
Yeah.
Well, happens, I guess, a lot.
I'm afraid.
Wrap up.
Yeah.